>> Hey, Brian.
>> Hey.
>> How are you doing?
>> I'm doing excellent.
How about you?
>> Very good.
Very good.
Thank you, everyone out there in the live stream.
Awesome to have you here today as well.
If you're watching the replay, it's still good to have you here.
Should we just kick it off?
>> Yeah, let's.
We've got lots of stuff to cover.
>> We do.
We do.
Here we go.
Welcome to Python Bytes where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 346, recorded April 1st, 2023.
I'm Michael Kennedy.
And I'm Brian Okken.
And this episode is brought to you by us.
Check out all of our things and support the show by taking part in them.
We have our courses, the pytest one Brian wrote, a bunch of other ones.
I just did the async Python and MongoDB combo
with a little bit of FastAPI and load testing in there.
That's a good one to check out.
And if you want to be part of the live stream,
just pythonbite.fm/live,
and you'll see the next scheduled one
that we got set up for you, queued up for you.
Usually 11 a.m. Pacific on a Tuesday, as it is today,
but that's not always the case, so be sure to check.
- Yes.
- Indeed, indeed.
Well, it is August, Brian, already.
Summer is getting close to an end.
How is this possible?
I have no idea.
it is August, April.
No, it's not April.
It's August.
Did I say April?
Maybe?
No.
Henry Schreiner in the, in the show, in the chat just said April?
Question mark.
Yeah.
If I said April, that's certainly August.
Yeah, the summer is moving along and so is the Python.
You have some big news to share, I know.
I have a bunch of fun small things,
but you got some big ones.
You wanna kick us off?
- Yeah, let's just jump into it.
So we, I think we've covered this before.
There was a PEP 703 to make the global interpreter lock
optional in CPython.
And well, we have some news from the steering council.
So the steering council has come back.
There's a Thomas Wooters posted a steering council notice
about PEP 703.
And there's a lot of news in here
that I think I'll let you help me dig through this.
So I'm going to jump down to the--
so there's some assumptions and some discussion
around this GIL removal thing.
But I'm going to jump to the short and midterm and long term
actions.
So it's going to be in stages.
So the idea is in the short term,
there'll be a no-gil build as an experimental build.
And that will be a part of possibly Python,
their version 3.13 or 3.14.
Looks like they're hoping for 3.13, but that's,
so that's like next year or something like that.
So, and then, okay, so then we'll have two builds.
What do we do with that?
Well, midterm is to have,
and the default version is gonna be the GIL version,
of course, just as usual, as things go through it,
as they figure out, and everybody deals with,
like the rest of the Python environment and community,
and all the third-party libraries figure out
how to deal with the no-GIL version.
So in the midterm, is there's gonna be,
hopefully community support to help get through this
no-gil part.
And then long-term, the no-gil version
becomes the main gill, or the main, not the main gill,
the main version of Python,
and we deprecate the GIL version.
So the timeframe looks like about,
the long-term isn't super long.
It's like in the five plus year timeframe.
Well, the plus means like, who knows how long it will be.
But I think that there's a lot of energy around
getting this done and getting a lot done
in the next few years.
- Yeah, the timeframe of it being an option in 3.13,
I would put it in October of next year of 2024.
- Yeah, and some alphas and betas earlier then.
- Yeah, for sure.
- That's pretty quick.
And then, so there's just some caveats in here
saying everybody's excited about it,
but they reserve the right to just cancel the whole thing
if it's really not working out.
So I don't think that'll happen.
- Yeah, yeah, we'll see how it goes.
But we talked about this a little bit on our AMA episode
about the value and basically what the other languages do.
Most of them have some constructs,
but assume that developer is kind of responsible.
You pointed out that it's not as burdensome
as people might think,
because most code is not parallel code
and you don't have to worry about it.
It's just kind of a, no big deal.
Don't have to think about it.
Unless you're writing libraries
where you know they will be used in a thread safe way,
things like that, then you do have to take that into account.
I think the trade-off is worth it.
We're not getting, we're not trending towards a world
where there are fewer CPU cores, right?
- Yeah.
- It's only getting to the point where,
you know, like for example, on my Mac,
if I run some Python program,
it has access to 10% of the capacity.
If I run it on my sim computer, sim racing computer,
it has 1/16, access to 1/16 of the CPU capacity, right?
It's just, if you wanna work in modern hardware,
You really need to have access to parallelism when you need it.
So for me, this is a real positive.
I think the other thing that we previously covered is Meta said they would come along
and dedicate three experienced engineer years to this project to help make not just it happen
in CPython, but to make it happen in the important libraries outside there like NumPy and those
types of things.
So I think for me, this is a super positive.
It's always been a little bit weird
that Python has been so restricted.
It's also one of those reasons that might,
it's like one of those springboards
that might eject someone from the community
that they would otherwise love, right?
You might be told, well, we gotta get better parallelism.
So we're not doing this in Python,
we're gonna do it in Go or some other place
where you're like, kind of like Python,
but I guess it's not a fit anymore, right?
this would mean that it's a better fit in other places.
So this is awesome.
I know it's gonna be a lot of work.
It's gonna be another legacy Python
versus non-legacy Python sort of deal.
Hopefully not too bad.
Maybe having gone through it once,
the community will go, "Ah, we'll do it again.
"It's not as bad as we thought."
- Yeah, but I mean, the goal is so that you can have,
like if you're just writing a little single-threaded thing
or a little script or whatever,
the small sort of things you do with Python also,
that those things are just as easy as they've always been
and just as fast.
That's what we want.
- Yeah, that's certainly the goal.
I'm just thinking about the code that uses the Python API
for an important library is that,
calls the API, release the gill, take the GIL.
You know, when there's no more gill,
does that library become unusable?
Does that become a no-op
and it's just undefined behavior.
You know what I mean?
There will be some kind of consequence in the ecosystem.
I'm not sure what the knock-on effect will be.
- Yeah, yeah, and it'll be interesting to see
how applications like Django and things like that
deal with it, so.
- Yeah, for sure.
And Liz out there points out,
get through this long-winded breakup with the Gill.
We have a semi-toxic and ambivalent relationship
with a GIL.
We love it and hate it at the same time, for sure.
Yep, definitely.
All right, well, Thomas, thanks for the update on this.
And it's going to be an interesting journey.
Brian will give us plenty to talk about, so that's cool.
Yeah, stick with this.
Make sure you subscribe to Python Bytes
to keep up on everything that's going on with the GIL breakup.
Yeah, exactly.
It'll be fun.
All right, I gotta adjust my browser before we switch
or I'm gonna spoil the joke.
All right, so I wanted to, just a quick one,
this is not Python specific,
but it's super important for web developers.
So we had Google with Flock, remember that?
Federated cohorts of learning of cohorts.
- Oh yeah.
- And then we had the Sandbox groups,
which was kind of like that.
I don't remember exactly what that was called,
But that was another technique because the flocks met with such resistance.
You could really do some bad stuff by putting people into these groups.
I'm not sure where the sandbox stands, but it turns out there's now a new proposal to
try to get rid of third-party cookies.
My feeling, I don't know for sure, but Google's trying to get rid of third-party cookies because
they're easy to block and it hurts their advertising and their retargeting if you can just easily
block it by checking a box like, "Do you want to be tracked?"
"No thanks."
You know, in your browser, right?
Like Firefox does, like Vivaldi does.
You know what?
Oddly, I don't remember that setting being a default in Chrome that it just offers to
block the Google network.
That's interesting.
It must have been an oversight.
So anyway, they're now out with a new thing and over on a bleeping computer they say,
"Browser developers push back against Google's Web DRM."
So basically, the different websites can choose or be made to choose to force you to verify
certain things that basically prohibit things like ad blocking like prove that
you don't have ad blocking on so you can visit my website or I'm going to tell
you you can't right new authentication system could let websites block
extensions jailbroken devices and other important things so the headline is
Google has been trying to implement plans to move beyond cookies for years
that sounds great comma without denying its partners and itself the means to
sell targeted ads which form the backbone of the company's revenue. This
new one comes, "Proposal to guarantee user privacy and security comes at the
cost of freedom of functionality aka the open web." So there's a bunch of, it talks
a little bit about how this works, but basically the website has to come along
and decide what browsers it trusts and the web browsers themselves have to
implement a mechanism to guarantee who they are. Not surprisingly, Vivaldi comes
along as one of the first people to push back against this and calling it
dangerous. If an entity has the power to decide which browsers are trusted and
which are not, they say, there's no guarantee that they will trust any given
browser and a new one that comes along would not by default not be trusted
until it's somehow proven itself to the people who run that website. And what
about the next website? What about the next? And so on. You have all these kind
of in an interesting position like this. They're just, they use a fork of
Chrome that's you know stripped down of a lot of things. But when you go to a
website or you look at the user agent that's how browsers nowadays tell people
who they are, right? You just send whatever you want, but it usually is a consistent thing.
Vivaldi lies and doesn't say we're Vivaldi version, I don't know, whatever version we're on.
It says I'm Chrome and whatever the current version of Chrome is, it just says that.
That way websites don't go, oh, you're going to need to use Chrome because your web browser isn't
one of those. You know, it's like it actually is internally identical. It just it's got a
a different name, right? So they're in this situation where they kind of lie to the world
about who they are, the web server world. And this would kind of break that as well.
The Brave team says, they don't really care, they're not shipping it. We'll see if that's
a problem or not. And Mozilla doesn't have an official opinion, but one of the folks
said, "The mechanisms to attempt to restrict these choices are harmful to the openness
of the web ecosystem. And this one might be interesting to you, Brian. Additionally, the
use cases listed depend upon the ability to detect non-human traffic, which as described
would likely obstruct things like web assistive technologies or automated testing. So anyway,
this is one of those things that probably deserves enough interest from people in the
the Python web world just voice a little bit of no.
>> No. The answer is no.
>> Yeah. So anyway, it's not super actionable.
It's not a thing that's out there yet,
but like the previous two,
it's the folks behind the web side of Google,
the web browser side of Google,
the web standard side of Google saying,
How can we basically change the web so that we will be able to completely still control
and track and sell you?
Right now, the third-party cookie thing is not looking good.
Even parliaments and Congress have gotten into it and said, "Oh, you can't have these
cookies.
We have these stupid pop-ups everywhere."
This would make those all go away and you would just be part of the machine.
You know what I mean?
This is just the third version of how do we make them part of the machine.
And this one I think is probably the worst because not only is it something that would
go into Chrome, which was the previous two, but this is something that would basically
make the websites reject browsers.
You might say, "Hey, Michael, why would a website do this?"
I mean, obviously, terrible places like CNN that have some like 45 trackers they put on
you every visit.
You might see why they would do that.
But why would random little website not want you to come?
Well there could be things like, "Oh, do you want to have Google ads on your site or any
double click or any ads from any ad network?
We're not going to allow you to have them at all unless your website has this, 'Please
reject the ones that we don't like' sort of setting turned on.
Here's the script that will help you do that."
So it's not ideal.
It's like nobody can make money off of traffic except for me.
Sort of thing.
Yeah, it's pretty bad.
It's kind of a monopoly type of situation.
One, in the browser space, and then two, in the ad space.
They're kind of both sides of that market.
It's pretty much not good.
I wonder how many people are turning off ads.
Because I've got Vivaldi running, and it's turning off ads.
turning off ads. And I run into websites that say, "You can't read this unless you turn
off your ad blocker." And I'm like, "Well, I'm not going to read it then. I'll go somewhere
else." But how many people really do? I mean, it can't be that many of us.
I would say for developers, the developer audience, looking at when I used to run Google
analytics before I decided they were evil and turned them off, it was about 40 to 50%
of the traffic would not show up.
Yeah, okay.
So that, I mean, it's not quite all blocking.
There could be robots like, you know, requests doing a request, like Python requests doing
a request that also wouldn't register, but that's pretty good.
And just, you know.
Yeah.
We'll go back to magazine ads never had tracking in them,
and they did fine.
Yeah, exactly.
So I mean, it's not just we're trying
to be jerks to websites, and we don't want to pay for stuff,
or we don't want to look at ads.
This headline-- how long is this?
This is just six months ago, or nine months ago.
"Hackers Abuse Google Ads to Spread Malware
in Legit Software."
There's just stuff over and over.
Plus there's all the reselling stuff, the NSA, CIA
stuff, with buying your, I mean, there's
just lots of, it's not just, I don't want to
see ads.
There's really negative effects to these things.
And it's honestly, it's a little bit
disappointing that Google is doing this.
Right.
And we have advertisers and we put ads on our
website for the, and it's, but it's, there's
no tracking.
So, and they're not even blocked because we're
not trying to send it through some creepy
network with retargeting.
And we're just, we tell you things that we've evaluated and thought you might like, and
people paid us to help spread the word.
And you know, there's certainly ways you could do that.
Right?
Like this last thing, this page we're on here, if it had ads, I don't know if it does or
not because I'm blocking them like you, but if it did, it could easily show you ads about
privacy.
It could show you ad about browsers.
There's like certainly relevant ads that can be put on here just based on the context of
the page, not who is viewing it.
Right.
And those work almost as well without all the negative stuff.
So anyway, one more thing to keep an eye on folks and
Christopher on the audience says, interesting how Google has lately.
Continuously continuously been trying to do the exact opposite of don't be evil.
I don't shareholder value, Christopher shareholder value.
Let's have it.
Well, right over to you.
that's, that's pretty rough news, man.
No, it's okay.
I mean, the last two sounded bad too, and they both got, you know,
yeah, pushed out of existence.
I suspect this one will as well, but
rough transition.
Oh, that, that was pretty rough.
Sorry.
Anyway.
so there's a, there's an article.
Oh, I lost the author.
It's from, Mattia, Mattias from Matias.
how rough changed my Python programming habits.
And we've covered rough, I think several times on the show,
but I, and I've used it on a lot of projects,
but I was excited to see this
because it's some stuff about rough
that I haven't been paying attention to.
It just works and it's really fast,
but there's a whole bunch of cool stuff.
So this, in this article talks about,
he talks about using pre-commit
or has long been using pre-commit and flake aid and black
and eyesore and all that sort of stuff.
And I knew that Ruff was going to start picking up
some of these extra things,
but I didn't know how far it went.
So in this article, he talks about using different rules
within Ruff, like PyFlakes and PyCode styles.
So that's, and the McCabe for
cyclomatic complexity checker,
just to make sure that you don't have too many nested
huge loops and different things like that.
- I love that magic.
- So all these things you can turn on within,
just within, within rough.
I sort, pep8 naming, that's cool.
Pie upgrade, love that.
Flake, flake8 2020, and I'm gonna shortly show
where you can look these up.
So there's a whole bunch of really cool things.
I really like bugbear, flake8 bugbear,
also. So apparently that's been supported for almost a year within rough.
like a Django pie simplify, but this,
these are just the ones that this person likes or is he trying out and using.
so I went ahead and kept looking. So that's, that's this article,
which is a pretty decent article about using how it changes.
The one of the things I'm going to highlight, and I've been trying to use,
I, when I tried to use pre-commit a while ago,
I haven't been using it lately
because a lot of these things take a bit.
They take a bit of time and it's, he writes,
there's always a trade-off between development speed,
i.e. waiting on git commit is very boring,
and strictness, and I have to agree.
So what I've been doing is mostly putting these tests in CI
and not doing it as part of pre-commit,
but having it within Ruff is super fast
and you can go back to using pre-commit with rough
and just turn on a bunch of these things.
So also linking to the rough configuration documentation.
And for example, all these things aren't turned on
by default, we get, I think the PyCode style warnings.
Oh, it doesn't turn on PyCode style warnings.
By default, it turns on PyCode style errors
and PyFlakes errors.
So those are turned on by default
and you turn it on with this like,
within the Tomo file with like a select equal
and then you have like just a string of characters
like E for PyCode style, F for PyFlakes.
And then there's a whole list of these.
So there's an example of you do B for Flake a bug bear.
And then there's another page for rules
where in the rules list all of the different ones.
So like the PyFlex start with F.
So if you would add F for that,
but there's a whole ton of these things
that I'm excited about trying to turn more of them on.
And I have on one of my projects and it's just super fast.
So you just like within pre-commit.
So there, when I try to commit something,
it'll run these on the files that have changed
and try to run or I can't, I actually don't know.
It's happening so fast, I don't care.
Maybe it does the whole thing, but it's just super fast now
and I don't have to wait to commit,
but I know the checks are being done.
Super fun.
The other bit that I wanted to,
the one last link I want to share is Astral,
which is the now company around Ruff,
has a Ruff pre-commit hook that you can set up
for GitHub Actions.
So if you just add this little snippet
that we have a link to, there's just an
Astral-SH Rough Pre-Commit Repository
with a version and with a hook,
and that will make it so that your project
runs within GitHub Actions also.
So, super fun.
- Okay, yeah, very cool.
I also like having it set up so not as a pre-commit hook,
but also as a PyCharm plugin.
>> Yeah. I just misspoke.
This isn't GitHub Action, it's a pre-commit hook.
So it hooks rough in with pre-commit. Sorry about that.
>> Yeah. Nice. Well, so that way,
as you're typing and you see the stuff,
it just puts a little squigglies under there and
suggests sometimes it can even auto-fix it,
Alt + Enter, fix this thing by, for example,
applying strict equals true and the zip.
- Okay. - Stuff like that.
- So you just have Ruff running in PyCharm.
- And it just runs constantly as you type,
but again, it's so fast, like, you know, you don't notice.
(laughing)
- Well, one of the-- - Plus I have 10 cores.
I could do it over there.
I could do one of that. - One of the fun things
with having it be a commit hook also
is you can set it up to auto-fix.
So rough isn't just you have errors,
but it can find the errors and fix them
and not even tell you about them.
It just fixes them. - That's nice, yeah.
- So like, well, I turned on bug bear
or I can't remember what,
I turned on one of the extra rules
and it showed some spaces at the end of the lines.
And then I added the command to just fix them for me.
And then it just didn't do it.
It just would fix them without even telling me,
which is great.
way better than complaining.
Yeah, like I sort stuff. Well, if I if I, if I'm just just sort
them, if I got them in the wrong order, just reorder them. That's
fine. So
yeah, and Henry says rep also has a VS Code language server
plugin as well. So
either side of the fence that you sit on for those. That's all
good. All right.
On to the next on the last. All right, on the last.
We've discussed FS-spec file system specification, I'm guessing.
And the idea of FS-spec was that what you can do is you can have all these different file systems
that when you would do like open, you know, open some file name, encoding is this, append, so on,
that kind of work, you could point it at different places besides the hard drive.
You could point it at S3.
You could point it at some kind of web dev or some other blob storage, network drive,
all these different things that you could possibly do.
You have exactly the same API as just opening a standard file.
That was like with open as file stream, you go do your thing.
Well, a lot of us are fans of using Pathlib, right?
So create the path, you do like a cool thing, you do the slash, the division is overridden
to look like you can separate the file names and all that, right?
So there's this thing called Universal Pathlib now that looks like this project was created
two months ago.
And this was sent in to us.
I want to say thank you to Justin Flannery.
Remember he had that camping CLI thing
that we could find campsites that are sold out and stuff.
- Yeah.
- And so we talked about that a few months ago.
So he sent this in and said,
"Look, FSSpec is awesome,
"but now there's a universal Pathlib
"and it extends the built-in Pathlib,
"so the Pathlib module.path API
"to use basically FSSpec, which is awesome."
And so if you want to talk to things
to things that are not file systems,
but you really like the path class,
then you can use this one.
Here they're saying, you know, import it as upath.
You could also just import it as path if you want.
As long as you're not mixing it up with the other
and just treat it the same, right?
So for example, you could say upath
instead of giving it a directory name or a file name,
you would say like S3 colon, you know,
slash slash some path to your S3 information,
slash some file, right?
And you could ask, what is the name?
What is the suffix?
Does it exist?
And read it, and so on.
Just like you would with a normal file,
but now this thing is in S3.
So we have file, we have Azure storage,
we have HTTP and HTTPS,
we have Hadoop, Google Cloud, S3, Web Dev,
and one I think that would be really cool
for testing, Brian, is memory.
- Yeah. - Right?
You wanna create a file, work with it,
make sure, you know, pass this path-like object
to other APIs, let it do things,
and then it just goes away when it goes away, right?
That's pretty cool.
- Yeah, I love using memory file systems for testing.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Like, SQLite has one memory colon, I think it is,
or maybe two colons on the front.
Same thing for the database.
But yeah, this is really handy.
Not to, you might be wondering, like,
Why would I ever use memory?
Because you don't want to touch the file system.
You just need to pass a file and there you go.
So super simple.
There's a little example notebook
that I blasted past somewhere.
People can check that out
if they want to just see how to use it.
Okay.
Bunch of examples play with it.
So if you are working with these alternate file systems,
this is definitely worth giving it a look.
- Yeah, cool.
Nice.
- All right, well, I have no extras.
How extra are you feeling today?
I guess I don't really have any extras either.
Just thinking something funny might be nice.
- I think so.
And I know that you've done,
you do a lot of C these days still,
and I've traditionally done some,
although not too much lately.
So I wanna have both a joke and something
to help people think about pointers,
and pointers are pointers.
'Cause Python is all about pointers,
even though we don't realize it, right?
When you create a variable, it points out to a thing.
You got a list.
It doesn't hold the value of the thing
that's in the list, it holds the pointers,
that point to the things that are the values.
So here's the joke.
There's an int just written out in memory,
just out in space floating there.
And there's an int star, so a pointer to the int,
it's like an anime character pointing out to it.
And then what is a pointer to a pointer?
Well, just the anime character pointing at the int star
that points over to the other one.
What do you think of this?
- I think it's just a great, I agree with the comment.
It's just a great way to describe pointers.
Actually somebody pointing.
- Yeah, it seems completely non-scary.
Whereas thinking about int star star, void star star,
something like that is pretty crazy.
Wow, it's got 18,000 likes on,
I don't know what it's on.
What website is this, Brian?
- The company formerly known as Twitter?
- Yes.
And yet what is the title of the pages,
and so on Twitter. The domain is twitter.com, but the logo is X. I don't know what a mess
this is. But anyway, the joke is funny.
>>Ted: Well, and the icons, there's an X for closing, which is still confusing.
>>Derek Yeah, there's two Xs in my tab up there. The left X and the right X.
>>Ted Yeah. Hopefully nobody renames their company greater than greater than and weird
for things like that.
- Yeah, absolutely.
- So, hey, I wanna add one more funny thing.
This is not really programming related,
but I've been watching a lot of like streaming,
catching up on some TV shows.
I'm watching, I can't even remember the name of it now,
catching up and I wanna skip through the beginning.
Have you ever done that on streaming shows,
you skip the intro?
- Right.
- So, I saw this the other day, it just cracked me up.
Apparently, it's rude to poke someone in the head,
the forehead, and say, "Skip intro,"
when they start talking to you.
I know people-- - I've heard the first hour.
- Yeah, like, "Okay, can you skip the preamble
"and just go to the whatever you wanted
"to talk to me about?"
- Pretty funny.
I imagine it probably is a little rude,
but sometimes you're in a hurry.
You've heard it three times already,
so get to the end.
Awesome talking with you as usual.
Indeed. Thanks for being here. Thank you to everyone who is listening and everyone who participated in the live stream. See you all next time.
[BLANK_AUDIO]